Richer pwa install article (#681)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/richer-pwa-installation/index.md

Chrome is introducing a new install surface, Richer Install, that allows developers to add a
description and screenshots to their manifest file and have it appear in a bottomsheet dialog
within Chrome for Android. 

This gives developers the opportunity to create a more enticing install process
that better aligns to user expectations and that mimics their existing mental model
of installed experiences. 

{% Columns %}
{% Column %}
{% Img src="image/xizoeLGxYNf3VLUHc5BsIoiE1Af1/SpStAtUk8Zp5iwi9yqKP.jpg", 
alt="Richer Install UI Expanded", width="342", height="722" %}
{% Aside %}
Richer Install UI Expanded
{% endAside %}
{% endColumn %}
{% Column %}
{% Img src="image/xizoeLGxYNf3VLUHc5BsIoiE1Af1/k7r4yKqrh6iOm2XyZHfw.jpg", 
alt="Richer Install UI Collapsed", width="342", height="722" %}
{% Aside %}
Richer Install UI Collapsed
{% endAside %}
{% endColumn %}
{% endColumns %}

## Backwards compatibility {: #compatibility }

Websites that do not include at least one screenshot to their manifest file will continue to receive 
the existing prompts. This may change in the future depending on uptake of the developer community 
and users' reaction.  

## Previewing the UI {: #previewing }

> This UI works in Chrome Dev & Chrome Canary on Android, with the flag `#mobile-pwa-install-use-bottom-sheet` enabled in `chrome://flags`.

Reviewer: This is what I was commenting on at the top. Please use specific version numbers.

> This UI works in Chrome Dev & Chrome Canary on Android, with the flag `#mobile-pwa-install-use-bottom-sheet` enabled in `chrome://flags`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This UI works in Chrome Dev and Chrome Canary on Android, with the flag `#mobile-pwa-install-use-bottom-sheet` enabled in `chrome://flags`.
```

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'

> title: Richer PWA installation UI

Author: Updated with the milestone

{% endAside %}

## Introduction {: #introduction }

Mobile devices and the introduction of device vendor app stores have changed users' mental model
of how to discover, evaluate and install software. Users are now so familiar with app stores, and
the additional information that is provided through app stores such as context about the app,
social feedback, ratings etc that we see the app store metaphor emerging in Desktop operating
systems including ChromeOS, Mac & Windows. 

 
## Challenge with today's install surfaces {: #today }

Today, if a user wants to install a PWA, an infobar and modal overlay appears with minimal
information. If they do continue to install, the process is over too quickly without giving
context to the user. This goes against their expectations of installing apps and can leave them
somewhat confused with what has happened.  

{% Img src="image/xizoeLGxYNf3VLUHc5BsIoiE1Af1/VwB1V3K61vQMs1htKJpY.png", 
alt="An example of PWA install UI.", width="360", height="632" %}

To enable and empower developers to provide installed experiences on--par with native experiences
Chrome is introducing a new install surface, Richer Install, that will allow developers to add a

> description and screenshots to their manifest file and have it appear in a bottomsheet dialog

Author: The image appears below it, with the example. Shall I add another image as well with just a bottomsheet?

> description and screenshots to their manifest file and have it appear in a bottomsheet dialog

Reviewer: Unless I'm missing something, I can't find that it's labeled as such. That means I have to look it up. Please make this clear.

> description and screenshots to their manifest file and have it appear in a bottomsheet dialog

Author: added an image with an example of bottomsheet UI to be clearer.

within Chrome. 

By doing this we are giving developers the opportunity to create a more enticing install process

> that better aligns to user expectations and better context that mimics their existing mental model

Author: removed

of installed experiences. 

{% Columns %}
{% Column %}
{% Img src="image/xizoeLGxYNf3VLUHc5BsIoiE1Af1/SpStAtUk8Zp5iwi9yqKP.jpg", 
alt="Richer Install UI Expanded", width="342", height="722" %}
{% Aside %}
Richer Install UI Expanded
{% endAside %}
{% endColumn %}
{% Column %}
{% Img src="image/xizoeLGxYNf3VLUHc5BsIoiE1Af1/k7r4yKqrh6iOm2XyZHfw.jpg", 
alt="Richer Install UI Collapsed", width="342", height="722" %}
{% Aside %}
Richer Install UI Collapsed
{% endAside %}
{% endColumn %}
{% endColumns %}

## Backwards compatibility {: #compatibility }

> Websites that do not conform to the above will continue to receive the existing prompts. This may

Author: I updated it to this
'Websites that do not include at least one screenshot to their manifest file will continue to receive the existing prompts.'

change in the future depending on uptake of the developer community and users' reaction.  

## Previewing the UI {: #previewing }

This UI works in Chrome Dev & Chrome Canary on Android, with the flag enabled;

> `mobile-pwa-install-use-bottom-sheet` 

Reviewer: This needs to include the flags path and the flag should have a # sign in it. Here's a common boilerplate: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/blob/main/src/site/content/en/blog/multi-screen-window-placement/index.md

This feature is enabled on [squoosh.app](https://squoosh.app) and can be previewed there. As an
aside, [#screenshots](https://web.dev/add-manifest/#screenshots) and 
[#description](https://web.dev/add-manifest/#description) fields are already documented; 
you can give it a try behind the flag. 

## Implementation {: #implementation }

> In order to enable Richer installs on your site you need to add at least one screenshot to your 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable Richer installs on your site you need to add at least one screenshot to your 
```

manifest file. Descriptions are not required but are recommended. 

Origins that are too long to fit the UI are truncated, this is also known as eliding and is used
as a [security measure to protect users](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/docs/security/url_display_guidelines/url_display_guidelines.md#eliding-urls). 

Let's take a look at how we can trigger Richer Install UI when installing a PWA. In this example
we are looking at squoosh.app implementation. Let's assume that you have your name and origin

> defined.

Reviewer: Please rewrite without 'we' per the [handbook](https://web.dev/handbook/grammar/#instructions).

Reviewer: please check this throughout.

The manifest should look like this; 

 ```javascript
 {
"name": "Squoosh App",
"icons": [{
"src": "image/icon.png",
      "sizes": "512x512",
      "type": "image/png"
    }],
"start_url": "/?start_url",
"scope": "/",
"display": "standalone",
"background_color": "#fff",
"theme_color": "#fff"
}
 ```

> Now let's add the screenshots to the end of the manifest.json file; 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now add the screenshots to the end of the manifest.json file; 
```

## Screenshots {: #screenshots }

> To add screenshots we need to determine the size, source and type, following this 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add screenshots you need to determine the size, source and type, following this 
```

[criteria](https://web.dev/add-manifest/#screenshots). 

> Width and height must be at least 320px and at most 3840px.
> The maximum dimension can't be more than 2.3 times as long as the minimum dimension.
> Screenshots must have the same aspect ratio.
> Only JPEG and PNG image formats are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Width and height must be at least 320px and at most 3840px.
* The maximum dimension can't be more than 2.3 times as long as the minimum dimension.
* Screenshots must have the same aspect ratio.
* Only JPEG and PNG image formats are supported.
```

> Currently animated gifs are not supported. We need to include the size and type of the image so it 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently animated gifs are not supported. Also, you need to include the size and type of the image so it 
```

is rendered correctly. 
[See this code example](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/richerinstall-screenshot?path=manifest.json%3A14%3A24).

 ```javascript
 "screenshots": [
    {
     "src": "source/image1.gif",
      "sizes": "320x640",
      "type": "image/gif"
    }
]
```
 
{% Columns %}
{% Column %}
{% Img src="image/xizoeLGxYNf3VLUHc5BsIoiE1Af1/7jsL23QoMfniU7WTHDK8.jpg", 
alt="A single screenshot added.", width="342", height="684" %}
{% Aside %}
A single screenshot added.
{% endAside %}
{% endColumn %}
{% endColumns %}

## Description {: #description }

> Descriptions are not compulsory, so there is no minimum requirement. There however is a max which 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Descriptions are not compulsory, so there is no minimum requirement. However, there is a maximum that 
```

kicks in after 7 lines of text (roughly 324 characters). After this an ellipse will appear and 
truncate longer descriptions 

> ([see example](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/richerinstall-longer-description)). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
([for example](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/richerinstall-longer-description)). 
```

> In the future we will consider adding other data such as categories and app rating, but this will 

Reviewer: This 'we' is fine.

be based on feedback from developers and users. 

> [See example code here](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/richerinstall-description?path=manifest.json%3A13%3A29).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[See the example code here](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/richerinstall-description?path=manifest.json%3A13%3A29).
```

> Example; 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

 ```javascript

> "description": "Compress and compare images with different codecs, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"description": "Compress and compare images with different codecs
```

right in your browser."
 ```

{% Columns %}
{% Column %}
{% Img src="image/xizoeLGxYNf3VLUHc5BsIoiE1Af1/oOj7Ls7cQ8E274faxfOz.jpg", 
alt="Description added", width="342", height="684" %}
{% Aside %}
Description added.
{% endAside %}
{% endColumn %}
{% Column %}
{% Img src="image/xizoeLGxYNf3VLUHc5BsIoiE1Af1/Dpzs03K6QmBkZaefX2nU.jpg", 

> alt="Longer description added that has been truncated.", width="342", height="684" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alt="A longer description that has been truncated.", width="342", height="684" %}
```
